a) How would you compare Cyber Kill Chain and ATT&CK Enterprise matrix? Who do you think could benefit from these models? 

  - The usage of the cyber kill chain is often used to help understanding and stopping varius external attacks before the opposer may archieve their goals. And then ATT&CK enterprise matrix usage is often used in target 
    of the opposers behavior, such as post-compromised 
    tactics and also with network movement and other envasion techniques. (Cyber Kill Chain vs MITRE ATT&CK: Best Comparison. 2024)

  - With cyber kill chain the attcker is often focused on gaining profit from sell the data that it succeded to gather. The end goal of most cyber attacks is laways the financial gain. And with ATT&CK enterprise matrix
    the attacker is mostly interested of gaining access of the businesses networking, work phones, and other industrial control systems with the benefit of financial gain by stealing and selling the companies data gathered 
    by it's users. (Cyber Kill Chain vs MITRE ATT&CK: Best Comparison. 2024)

b) Pick a security incident and learn about it. Write briefly about it. Point out the concepts of threat actor, exploit, vulnerability and (business) impact. (You can find writeups about security incidents from 
   Darknet Diaries and Krebs) 

  - I picked the security incident called Dark Wire by Joseph Cox. I think it's great that he is concerned about his privacy and has started using GrapheneOS that is a fork by Android, but it does not send so much of the 
    personal data to Google. (The Incredible True Story of the Largest Sting Operation Ever. 2024)

  - The threat actor is Google and other big companies that ire posing as a risk to the persons cybersecurity by engaging in data gathering without the users permission. People that do not protect them self about 
    cybersecurity are putting them self in risk by giving their private information to Google and other big tech companies such as Microsoft. And also as Joseph points out that also the FBI is  exploiting cybersecurity 
    vulnerabilities such as the Operation Trojan Shield.

c) Install Debian on Virtualbox. Report your work, including the environment (including host OS, the real physical computer used), the steps you took and their results.

  - Installing different operation systems with Virtualbox is familiar to me from previous courses. I began downloading the required ISO file Debian-live-12.7.0-amd64-xfce file that took a few minutes and after that I 
    started installing the operation system only to notice that Virtualization was disabled on my computers Bios, since I have upgraded my motherboard and CPU recently. After enabling Virtualization I could start the 
    Debian operation system installation process. I chose the required RAM and storage and installed Debian on Virtualbox without any major issues and attatched through Imgur. 

    Pictures from the installation:
    https://imgur.com/a/QUSmAnc

    Host OS: Windows 11 (64 Bit) computer spesifications: Desktop computer that is using a B550 motherboard, 32 Gb RAM, AMD Ryzen 7 5700X3D processor and Nvidia RTX 3070 graphics card.


    Sources:
    Cyber Kill Chain vs MITRE ATT&CK: Best Comparison. 2024. Readable at: https://www.stationx.net/cyber-kill-chain-vs-mitre-attack/ Read: 28.10.2024 
    The Incredible True Story of the Largest Sting Operation Ever. 2024. Readable at: https://darknetdiaries.com/transcript/146/ Read: 29.10.2024
    Task page source. Readable at: https://terokarvinen.com/trust-to-blockchain/#h1-adversarial-mindset/ Read 05.11.2024
